# Eagle-Strategy-with-Differential-Evolution
Load Balancing Algorithm

Resource usage is a crucial problem in cloud computing since it directly impacts the functionality, cost, and energy effectiveness of cloud services. Efficient resource allocation and management, including computing power, storage, and network bandwidth, are necessary to guarantee the best performance and use of cloud resources. The dynamic and unpredictable nature of workload needs, the complicated and distributed nature of cloud architectures, and the heterogeneous and varied nature of cloud applications and services make it difficult to achieve efficient resource utilisation in cloud computing environments Various strategies and methods, including dynamic resource provisioning, virtual machine consolidation, energy-aware resource allocation, and workload prediction, can be used to overcome the problems faced. Our goal is to Increase Load Balancing with Resource utilisation, which can be possible with Natural Phenomena or Bio-Inspired Algorithms. One of which has recently showing its dominance in Optimisation Problems i.e., ES-DE Algorithm, which is a Two Stage Searching mechanism that helps in identifying the best possible places to keep the workload Balancing Perfectly aligned with Resource Utilisation.

The code we uploaded will randomly create the arrays representing the Physical Machine with the determined Configurations which have to be checked during the time of assigning the Physical Machine and an appropriate Virtual Machine. It uses the Levy Strategy for searching optimal PM globally and we will perform Local Search using the Differential Evolution Algorithm which is an advancement to the Genetic Algorithm.

More about the code is given as comments in the code itself.
